README.md, before:

# 📸 Xhot It

Xhot it (read as "shot it") is just another screenshot app in your desktop: an experimental application. powered by [Tauri v2](https://v2.tauri.app/).

![Screenshot](./screenshot.png)

![Screen Record](./screenrecord.gif)

## Download

Check on the [release page](https://github.com/mazipan/xhotit/releases)

## Features

- **🖼️ Capture Area**: capture screenshot using free selection
- **🪟 Capture Active Window**: capture the active window only
- **🖥️ Capture Screen**: capture the whole screen
- **🎨 Backdrop Background**: setting backdrop background


## Additional Info for Mac OS

### Enable screen recording in Mac

▶️ https://support.apple.com/en-ca/guide/mac-help/mchld6aa7d23/mac

### Resolve app is damaged

Run this command:

```bash
xattr -c /Applications/Xhot It.app
```

## Development

Prerequisites

+ `bun`: https://bun.sh/docs/cli/install
+ `rust`: https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install

Install deps

```bash
bun install
```

Run app in your local

```bash
bun run tdev
```

## Credits

+ [dimaportenko/code-helper](https://github.com/dimaportenko/code-helper) for the base code
+ [screenshots](https://crates.io/crates/screenshots) and [xcap](https://crates.io/crates/xcap) for capturing screen
+ [active-win-pos-rs](https://crates.io/crates/active-win-pos-rs/) to detect active window position


## Contributors

Thanks goes to these wonderful people!

[![Contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=mazipan/xhotit)](https://github.com/mazipan/xhotit/graphs/contributors)

## Support Me

- 👉 🇮🇩 [Trakteer](https://trakteer.id/mazipan/tip?utm_source=github-mazipan)
- 👉 🌍 [BuyMeACoffe](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mazipan?utm_source=github-mazipan)
- 👉 🌍 [Paypal](https://www.paypal.me/mazipan?utm_source=github-mazipan)
- 👉 🌍 [Ko-Fi](https://ko-fi.com/mazipan?utm_source=github-mazipan)

Commit message:

DOC: Add known issues in MacOS

README.md, after:

# 📸 Xhot It

[![publish](https://github.com/mazipan/xhotit/actions/workflows/publish-to-manual-release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mazipan/xhotit/actions/workflows/publish-to-manual-release.yml) ![GitHub package.json version](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/mazipan/xhotit) ![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/mazipan/xhotit)

Xhot it (read as "shot it") is just another screenshot app in your desktop: an experimental application. powered by [Tauri v2](https://v2.tauri.app/).

![Screenshot](./screenshot.png)

![Screen Record](./screenrecord.gif)

## Features

- **🖼️ Capture Area**: capture screenshot using free selection
- **🪟 Capture Active Window**: capture the active window only
- **🖥️ Capture Screen**: capture the whole screen
- **🎨 Backdrop Background**: setting backdrop background

## Download

Download the executable files in our [release page](https://github.com/mazipan/xhotit/releases).

## 🍏 Known Issues in MacOS

1. Enable screen recording in Mac

- Go to `System Settings` > `Privacy & Security`
- Scroll down to `Screen & System Audio Recording`, click it
- Make sure to give access to "Xhot It" app.

▶️ https://support.apple.com/en-ca/guide/mac-help/mchld6aa7d23/mac

2. Can not open the App

It was blocked by default in MacOS, you need to give an access to the installed app. Check these step by step:

- Go to `System Settings` > `Privacy & Security`
- Scroll down to `Security` section
- Make sure to "Open Anyway" when it's asked

3. Resolve app is damaged

If the App can not be open, and show message "App is damaged", you need to enter additional command in your terminal:

```bash
xattr -c /Applications/Xhot It.app
```

## Development

Prerequisites

+ `bun`: https://bun.sh/docs/cli/install
+ `rust`: https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install

Install deps

```bash
bun install
```

Run app in your local

```bash
bun run tdev
```

## Credits

+ [dimaportenko/code-helper](https://github.com/dimaportenko/code-helper) for the base code
+ [screenshots](https://crates.io/crates/screenshots) and [xcap](https://crates.io/crates/xcap) for capturing screen
+ [active-win-pos-rs](https://crates.io/crates/active-win-pos-rs/) to detect active window position

## Contributors

Thanks goes to these wonderful people!

[![Contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=mazipan/xhotit)](https://github.com/mazipan/xhotit/graphs/contributors)

## Support Me

- 👉 🇮🇩 [Trakteer](https://trakteer.id/mazipan/tip?utm_source=github-mazipan)
- 👉 🌍 [BuyMeACoffe](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mazipan?utm_source=github-mazipan)
- 👉 🌍 [Paypal](https://www.paypal.me/mazipan?utm_source=github-mazipan)
- 👉 🌍 [Ko-Fi](https://ko-fi.com/mazipan?utm_source=github-mazipan)
